- Scopo iniziale dell'uso di internet
- La venuta del WWW-WEB(locale --> remoto con internet)
- parallelo con pc utente e server remoto
- codice
- broseser
- futuro
- about us
- footer info

 






Libro:
The world wide web is basically the
work of a single man, Tim Berners
Lee, a computer scientist born in
London in 1955.
It all started in 1980 when
Berners-Lce was working as a
software engineer at CERN, the
European Laboratory for Particle
Physics, in Geneva. He wrote a
simple program called Enquire
to help him remember the connections among the
various people, computers, and projects at the lab. He
could type in a page of information about a person, a
device, or a program and each page became a 'node
in the program, a little like an index card. Enquire
developed into a kind of 'hypertext notebook. Words
in one document could be "linked to other files on
his computer; he could follow a link by typing in a
number (there was no mouse to click back then) and
automatically pull up the related document.
It worked well on his own computer. But what if
he wanted to add things that were on someone
else's computer? First he would need that person's
permission, and then he would have to do the tedious
work of adding the new material to a central database.
He realised that it would be much easier if he, and all
his colleagues, simply opened up their documents-
and their computers- to each other and allowed all
the material to be interlinked. Access could be limited
to the people working at CERN, but why stop there?
Why not open it up to scientists everywhere? This
was a revolutionary idea. 'Suppose all the information
stored on computers everywhere were linked... Suppose
I could program my computer to
create a space in which anything
could be linked to anything. All the
bits of information in every computer
at CERN, and on the planet, would
be available to me and to anyone
else. There would be a single, global
information space. In Berners-Lee's
scheme there would be no central
manager, no central database. The
thing could grow like the Internet itself, open-ended
and infinite. It could spread like a spider's web.
In order to be able to do this, he put together a relatively
easy-to-learn coding system-HTML (Hyper Text
Mark-up Language)- that has become the lingua
franca of the web. 'This is how website creators put
those little underlined links in their text, add images
and so on. He designed an addressing scheme that gave
each web page a unique location, or URL (Universal
Resource Locator). And he established a set of rules
that permitted these documents to be linked together
on computers across the Internet: HTTP (HyperText
Transfer Protocol). Finally he designed the web's first
browser which allowed users anywhere to view and
navigate around his creation on their computer screens.
When the world wide web appeared in 1991, it brought
order and clarity to the chaos of cyberspace. From that
moment on, the web and the Internet grew almost as
a single entity. Within five years the number of users
jumped from 600,000 to 40 million. The impact of the
global system he created has been enormous. He took
a powerful communications system that only the elite
could use and turned it into a mass medium.
He
, a
ds